
# 20190613 call on Internet threat model

- Logistics:
    - Dramatis Personae: Jari, Brian, Stephen, Ted 
    - time: 20190613 1800 CEST
    - url: https://meet.google.com/ogt-byti-jki?hs=122

SF notes of call are at the bottom...

- possible agenda for the call:
    - quickly skim (in 5 min) the points below to see if going through
      things in this order is sensible (or haggle over that via 
      email ahead of time) 
    - if so, do so (editing as we go in some etherpad or similar)
    - if not, do what?
    - AOB:-)

- main drafts/inputs (take the references from these as stated):
    - BCP72/RFC3552
    - https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-farrell-etm
    - https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-arkko-arch-internet-threat-model
    - what else (not referenced from any of the above)?
    - anything deserve to be promoted from referred-to by one of 
      the above?
    - anything else from DEDR?

- a couple of principles/starting points (to see if we agree with 'em):
    - This bit of BCP72/RFC3552 remains correct: "we assume that the
      attacker has nearly complete control of the communications
      channel"
    - The bit that's changed is that the endpoints aren't as trusted as
      was the case in 2003
    - Another bit that's changed is that assume there are attackers actively
      cross-correlating flows across many different channels  

- possible short-term process (may be better at end of call):
    - develop this work via a set of (weekly?) concalls over the next
      ~month with this set of folks (anyone else sorely needed right
      now?)
    - document results for IAB consumption however seems best
      (presentation, I-D, whatever) and present to IAB Sunday of
      @IETF105 (could be joint topic with IESG maybe, or just invite in
      Sec ADs)
    - propse continuing the work in a (re-populated?) secpriv programme
      or close secpriv and start a new programme (with most work done
      on open list) 
        - would need to chat with MT, and secpriv list about that first
          of course
    - consider a side-meeting @IETF105? (not sure) 

- possible new protocol design recommendatons to explore (as potential
  additions to BCP72, should something end up garnering IETF consensus):
    - consider protocol abuse-cases as well as use-cases
    - consider that all configuration could be on a VM with an
      adversarial dom0 or equivalent
    - consider that all stored data will leak if we just wait long
      enough
    - consider that all hosts will be compromised if we just wait long
      enough
    - consider the number of interactions in which endpoints engage and
      the (overwhelming) probability that endpoints end up interacting
      with compromised peers

- examples of possible protocol design changes resulting from
  considerations above (in same order, not all examples of success
  outcomes;-):
    - remove or avoid a new tracking capability; QUIC connection ID
    - post key compromise requirements in MLS
    - use emphemeral identifiers that aren't easily correlated over
      different sessions even if typical session logging is done (HTTP
      cookies -> not cookies)
    - ensure enrollment can be re-done after factory-reset (ACME)
    - provide ways to report on summaries/statistics (TLS-RPT) 
    

- Two good points not easy to whack into the above from Ted:

    - An additional complication to your trust point is that many services and
      a number of applications aren't resident in a single network node any
      more.  For IoT devices, the application might be resident in the
      Sensor/Hub/Cloud, and the communications among them have some odd boundaries as
      a result (the trust boundary looks more like IPC than end-to-end
      communication).  For services, CDNs, load balancers, and service function
      chaining have all pretty much exploded the "website on a server" view of the
      world.  You add that to your "all endpoints will be compromised eventually"
      point and it gets worse.

    - Oh, and don't get me started about the effort to keep containers and VMs
      in ignorance of their actual topology and relationship to host systems.

- SF action: make git repo, we'll work on some MD on that, I-D not yet
- SF action: schedule an IAB room side meeting for this
- SF action: check the privsec "thanks" framing with MT + this group
  and see if MT wants to send that thanks message
- SF action: make sure someone else gets all the actions next time:-)

